Call options (#183)
UMAprotocol/docs: docs/products/calloption.md

---
title: Call Options
sidebar_label: Call Options
---

> A call option is a building block for the derivatives market. It gives the buyer the right but not the obligation to buy the asset at a specific price (strike) at a specific time. 

Reviewer: Perhaps we want to put something about why it is easy to build call options on UMA within the introduction.

> A call options is a building block for the derivatives market. It gives the buyer the right but not the obligation to buy the asset at a specific price (strike) at a specific time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A call option is a building block for the derivatives market. It gives the buyer the right but not the obligation to buy the asset at a specific price (strike) at a specific time. 
```

> This page will detail how to create your own call options and layout a few reasons why you would want to create call options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page will detail how to create your own call options on UMA.
```

## How options work

> A trader buys a call option with a strike price of 2,000 USD for 0.05 ETH. Now he has the right to buy 1 ETH for 2,000 USD. At the expiry, ETH/USD is at 2,500 USD, and the delivery price is 2,500 USD.

Reviewer 2: `an ETH call option`

In this case, the option is settled for 500 USD per 1 ETH. At the expiry, the trader’s account is credited with 0.2 ETH (500/2,500), and the seller’s account is debited with 0.2 ETH. The initial purchase price was 0.05 ETH; therefore, the trader’s profit is 0.15 ETH.

> Any call option with an exercise price (strike price) above 2,500 USD will expire worthless.

Reviewer 2: Having this sentence here feels a little confusing; I would just cut it. The next sentence, explaining how the specific call option bought by the trader could have hypothetically expired worthless, is good.

If the price of the option was less than $2000 the option will expire worthless. The payout function can be seen as:

![Diagram](/img/option_payout.png)

> ## Create your own options

Reviewer: Just to standardize with the KPI Options format

```suggestion
## Getting Started
```

> Using UMA's infrastructure a team can create a call option using our EMP contract template. These would allow a team to create European style options which are only redeemable at the time of expiry. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using UMA's infrastructure, a team can create a covered call option using the UMA EMP contract template. These covered calls are European style options which are only redeemable at the time of expiry. 
```

> To create your own options you can make use of one of the currently approved [price identifiers](/uma-tokenholders/approved-price-identifiers.md) and [collateral types](uma-tokenholders/approved-collateral-currencies.md). 

Reviewer: I think this should be expanded with more directions. It'd be great if this could be a step by step guide similar to what you wrote for the KPI options doc.

General structure of something like:

1. Are necessary price ids and collateral types approved? 
2. If no, go here for templates
3. Write (or use) a covered call financial product library. Code seen here: https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/blob/master/packages/core/contracts/financial-templates/common/financial-product-libraries/CoveredCallFinancialProductLibrary.sol
4. Launch an EMP with this tutorial. Use the covered call FPL from step 3.
5. Set your strike price by doing XYZ
6. Determine your option's starting price with Black-Scholes and create a market

Thoughts?

> With the contracts being cash settled and the terms of the contract being constant throughout, the need to manage your position or run liquidation bots is not needed. 

Reviewer 2: `With the contracts being cash settled, the terms of the contract remaining constant throughout, and positions always being fully collateralized by definition, there is no need to manage your position or run liquidation bots.`

> ## Reasons to use call options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## DeFi Call Option Use Cases
```

> There are a number of reasons for call options in the traditional financial world. Some of the reasons translate to the DeFi space as well as open new uses cases such as: 

Reviewer 2: `use cases`

In this case, the option is settled for 500 USD per 1 ETH. At the expiry, the trader’s account is credited with 0.2 ETH (500/2,500), and the seller’s account is debited with 0.2 ETH. The initial purchase price was 0.05 ETH; therefore, the trader’s profit is 0.15 ETH.

If the price of the option was less than $2000 the option will expire worthless. The payout function can be seen as:

![Diagram](/img/option_payout.png)

## Getting Started

Using UMA's infrastructure, a team can create a covered call option using the UMA EMP contract template. These covered calls are European style options which are only redeemable at the time of expiry. 

1. To create your own options you can make use of one of the currently approved [price identifiers](/uma-tokenholders/approved-price-identifiers.md) and [collateral types](uma-tokenholders/approved-collateral-currencies.md). If your price price identifiers or collateral typesis not approved you can follow our [UMIP process](/uma-tokenholders/umips.md) to get your specific requirements approved.

> 2. You can then launch your contracting my following the [EMP launch tutorial](/Users/chandler/Devwork/UMA/docs/docs/developers/emp-deployment.md). Be sure to include the covered call from our [financial product library](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/blob/master/packages/core/contracts/financial-templates/common/financial-product-libraries/CoveredCallFinancialProductLibrary.sol)

Reviewer 2: `by following`

With the contracts being cash settled, the terms of the contract remaining constant throughout, and positions always being fully collateralized by definition, there is no need to manage your position or run liquidation bots. 

> 3. Then to wrap up you should choose the strike price and the starting price of your option. First choose the strike price (the price the collateral will be sold for) and then use an options pricing calculator to derive the starting price. YAn exmample of such a calculator can be this [Black Scholes Calculator](https://goodcalculators.com/black-scholes-calculator/).

Reviewer 2: `An`
